Now that we’ve finished implementing our
single book routing, lets work through how
to display this content in our book details
component.
The first thing I’ll do is open up our book.ts
file, and this has the interface for our book.
So just make sure that the interface includes
this data right here.
With our interface properly defined, lets
open up our book.service.ts file.
What I want to do in this file is first create
a service that’s going to get the individual
book.
So I’ll scroll down a bit here and make
a new method which is going to be called getBook.
And this is going to take a parameter.
We’ll call it id, which is of type string.
This id represents the route parameter that
we get when navigating to our route.
It’s going to return an observable and that
observable is going to be of type IBook.
So what we’re going to do is first get all
of the books and then filter for the book
that we’re looking for.
We’ll say return this.getBooks and this
is going to give back all of the books.
Which is using this method right here.
And then we’ll say dot map.
Inside this map contains the object of all
of our books, so its going to be of type IBook
and since it includes more then 1, its going
to be an array.
And then we’re going to use this return
value of books.
And then we’ll say dot find.
Find is a method in the rxJS observables.
If you hover over and then scroll down a little
bit, you can see this operator find.d.ts.
So this is the method that we’re using and
you can actually open this up if you want
and you can dig into this a little bit more.
But all its going to do is compare 2 values.
Inside of this find method, the first value
represents our entire object that we’re
getting back.
And we can use a function here to say the
object that we got back, we’re going to
look for the id and we’re going to look
for the one that’s equal to the id that
we passed in right here.
What we’ll do is take the route parameter
which is the id of the book and then we’re
going to match it against all of the books
that we find to extract the one that we want.
Then below this I’m going to chain a dot
do method so I can print out the data.
This is just going to be a log statement that
will print out for us the data we just searched
for.
Which should be just the one single book.
And then I’ll comment out this console log
up here.
Now the next thing to do is in our book details
component, so we’ll open up our typescript
file.
Within our import statement I need to import
OnInit and OnDestroy.
Then below that I’m going to also import
ActivatedRoute, and this is going to be from
@angular/router.
We need activatedRoute so we can grab the
parameter that’s been passed in to the route
location.
Then I’m going to implement our OnInit and
OnDestroy right here, so implements OnInit
and OnDestroy.
I’m going to create a few properties up
top.
So the first one is going to be book which
is of type IBook, and we’ll say errorMessage
is of type string.
Now lets go back up here and we need to import
IBook, so we’ll say import and then IBook
from ../book.
And lets go ahead also and import our service,
so we’ll import BookService and this will
be from ../book.service.
Lets go ahead and also import subscription.
So this will be import Subscription and this
is going to be from rxjs/Subscription.
Subscription allows us to subscribe to an
observable and the observable that we’re
going to subscribe to is the ActivatedRoute
params, and you’ll see how its done in a
second.
What we’ll do is make a private variale
for our subscription.
Now lets create our constructor and inside
the constructor we’ll first make a private
route.
So this is private underscore route assigned
to ActivatedRoute.
And we’ll also make another private variable
this is going to be for our bookService so
we’ll say underscore bookService is of type
BookService.
Then inside of the constructor I’m going
to do one thing, which is to add a log statement.
What we’re going to do is pull out the id
of our route params.
So I can say this._route, which we just defined
above, dot snapshot dot params of id.
So when we navigate to this page, I’m going
to log out the id that was passed into our
route parameters.
Below this lets go ahead and declare our getBook
method within our component.
So this will be getBook and we’re passing
in the id which is of type string.
Then we’ll say this dot underscore bookService
dot getBook, which is going to call the getBook
method on our BookService.
We’ll pass in the id, then subscribe to
the observable that we get back.
This is going to return for us an object with
just a single book, so that’s what this
book is.
And then we’ll use a function to say this
dot book, which we defined right here is equal
to the results that we just got back.
Then in case there’s an error, we’ll say
error function this dot errorMessage is equal
to an error of type any.
You might be thinking, where is this id coming
from?
Because we haven’t defined an id anywhere
within the html and we haven’t declared
this id up above.
So this id is going to be passed in when we
navigate to the route and that’s why we
have to use this ActivatedRoute.
And we can do that using NgOnInit.
So we’ll say ngOnInit and we’ll just say
type void because it doesn’t return anything.
We’ll say this dot sub and what this will
do is watch for an observable coming through
the route.
So we’ll say this dot underscore route,
which we defined up above dot params dot subscribe.
We subscribe to the route params observable
which returns for us the params object.
This is just a variable containing what is
returned from the observable.
And within these curly’s I need to define
our id and that’s going to be params of
id.
So this is just like up above where we’re
taking a snashot of the params and we still
have to grab this id field.
And then I can use this id variable that we
just defined inside of getBook in order to
make a call to our service.
Now lets open up our book details component.
So now that we’ve got back the individual
book, if I change this war and peace to book.name
I should expect to get back the name of the
book that we’ve navigated to.
So lets go over to our application and test
this out.
I’ll just refresh this and go over to all
books and I’m going to open up my console
and navigate over to the hobbit.
So basically you can see this breaks.
We don’t get back the name of the book and
if we scroll up here, we see ‘cannot read
name of undefined’.
There’s a couple of logs that went through.
The first one shows that we did get the snapshot
of the route.
Even though its not appearing up here because
this broke, we did get back the route snapshot.
We got back our route snapshot, and then our
app broke and if we scroll down here we did
get back the object.
The reason why this breaks is because the
template gets updated before the model gets
updated.
So essentially, the template has loaded before
we’ve gotten back our object.
Lets switch back over to our code.
There’s a newer way to fix this which involves
using a resolve object on the router to make
sure we’ve got the data back before the
template is displayed.
But for the time being I’m going to use
the older solution which is just to add an
elvis operator which is a question mark saying
that don’t display this until our object
has been obtained.
Now, if I save this and I go back to my app
and go to the hobbit, we can see that the
name is displayed right here.
Now lets open up my api books and then books.json.
So now all you need to do to fix this template
is just add the correct binding down below.
If I were to copy this over and go down here
which it says description I will paste that
and in our json file you see that we’re
using the key description, so I can just change
that real easy and now that’s going to replace
the description.
So you can do the same for the specifications
and the release date.
And one thing that I will mention is that
within this class panel collapse collapse
you have to add the keyword ‘in’ in order
to make this un-collapsed.
And you need to do this for the other ones
as well.
We’ll change this to in as well.
And this will make the wells already collapsed.
If you have any problems fixing this the code
solutions will be available within this lecture.